# How to run
There are two main scripts, test_conv.py and check_edges.py

Before run any of those scripts you need to have the requirements that are presented at requirements.txt

To run the test_conv.py you need to do
```bash
pytest test_conv.py
```
Or if you want to see more information about the tests
```bash
pytest -s test_conv.py
```
This script will generate a json file with all the tests that were generated.

To run check_edges.py you need to do
```bash
python check_edges.py
```
Make sure that you have the json file generated by test_conv.py

# Hypothesis Tests Doubts for Conv operator

## Conv

### Inputs/attributes generation
What would be the best approach for generating inputs that satisfy the **X[C3]** constraint?

We know that ideally Hypothesis should generate input values that already satisfied this equation. We have been searching for ways to do that and we found no viable way to do so. 

Therefore, our aproach was to generate two unconstrained variables, and then derive the remaining two based on those, ensuring the final inputs satisfy the required condition. Another possibility was to generate only unconstrainted values and then filter by those who satisfy the equation (this would be computationally expensive and would probably defeat the purpose of using Hypothesis — many edge cases would be lost).

### Auto_Pad = "Valid"
There is no documentation stating how this type of configuration works.
Therefore we are unable to calculate dY dimensions (useful for the generation phase) and we cannot reason about the results it produces.
How should we proceed?
Should we ignore this configuration for Auto_Pad or is there any documentation that we haven't looked yet.

# Explanations of Conv corner and edge cases generation

## Assumptions
First of all let us explain what we mean by corner and edge cases.
- **Corner cases** are the extreme values of a given parameter, such as the minimum and maximum values that the parameter can take.

- **Edge cases** are values that are just above or below the minimum and maximum values, respectively.

## Conv tests
For concat operator we checked the **corner and edge cases** for: **dx0, dx1, dx2, dx3, dw0, strides, auto_pad and pads**.
We think its **irrelevant** to check the corner and edge cases for **db0** because of **B [C1]** and **kernel shape** because of **W [C3]**.
We didn't check the corner and edges cases for **dw2, dw3 and dilations** because the way we generate them is not independent. 

We consider that **dx0, dx1, and dw0** as lines since they are independent and we check the corner and edge cases for them.

For **dx2** and **dx3** we consider them as a **rectangle**. We check each **corner** of the rectangle, a **middle point of each rectangle edge** and a **middle point of the rectangle**.

For **pads** (when **auto_pad == NOTSET**) we consider a **4D cube** and we check each corner of the "4D cube". All **16 corners**, example, (min,min,min,min), (min,min,min,max), ... (min,max,max,max), (max,max,max,max) where min is the minimum value of pads and max is the maximum value of pads.
Also we check a middle point of each edge of the "4D cube" and a middle point of the "4D cube".

For **auto_pad** we check if all the possible values are being generated (Except **VALID**)

For **strides** we consider them as a **rectangle***. We check each **corner** of the rectangle, a **middle point of each rectangle edge** and a **middle point of the rectangle**.