# SONNX meeting (21/08)

## Object

- ONNX Safety-related workgroup meeting

## Attendees

- Mariem, Nicolas, Augustin, Eric

## Minutes

- Status of actions (see below)
- Brief recap of the work done on the CONV operator (Mariem)
    - The Why3 specification is now complete thanks to Loïc. A FrameC implementation is also available.
        
        
        - [ ]  <21/08> (Mariem) Convert the CONV operator specification to markdown.
    - After discussion with Loïc, the appropriate solution would be first to “axiomatize” tensors (in the same way it has already been done for matrices).
        
        
        - [ ]  <21/08> (Mariem, eric, Loïc) Propose an first axiomatization of tensors (3D, 4D) and use it to specify the CONV operator.
- Discussion of Nicolas’ comments on the SOW
    - Four points were discussed
        - We have introduced new terms (”TMD, TMDL) that are neither used in the ONNX community (where the term “ONNX IR” is used) nor in the ARP (where the term “MLMD” is used). We have either to stick to one of those — possibly ONNX’ — or at least explain the correspondence between them…
        - Nicolas mentioned that we have to “address the semantic of the model storage (ONNX IR for safety critical) […]”.
            - Yes, this should be covered by the activities concerning the semantics and the syntax of the model description language. Nicolas also raised the question about discriminating the model used during the design and the model used as the starting point of the implementation. *But it is not clear whether we really need to discriminate them: we are only concerned by the semantics of the model, whatever its used.* However, we will not consider operators used during training, so our profile will only be applicable during inference…
        - Nicolas what not happy with the remark about “ambiguous” models  (sentence  “[…] ambiguous if this ambiguity is acceptable or even necessary to leave some freedom to the implementer […]): *I do not see any reason for that. The model shall be unambiguous. If the implementer chooses to implement a surrogate model (optimized), then this model is the MLMD to be specified using ONNX. ARP6983 specifies that replication criteria shall be specified*.
            - This is an important point. The model shall actually be non ambiguous. The user may introduce derived requirements about implementation (e.g., the order in which operators have to be executed). This contingency is what was meant by the term “ambiguity”. We have to be more explicit in the SoW: the specification will not be ambiguous, but there will be some “flexibility” about the set of derived requirements applicable to a given model.
            
            - [ ]  <21/08> (Eric+Jeans) In the SoW, avoid the use of the term “ambiguity”. Be more explicit about the different types of requirements. Introduce the concept of “replication criteria” and clarify its relation to requirements.
        - Nicolas mentioned that “All the activities consist in paper work. Is there some room for POC for formal verification, extension of the definition of the format, tools to build, review, verify a SONNX MLMD ? Who are the users/recipients of the outputs ? (I would guess that some output are for us, some others for ONNX community...).”
            - Only the first part of the remark was discussed: we actually need some “practical” work in order to validate our proposal. We should introduce a “running example” (e.g., MobileNet) that will be specified using SONNX, implemented, compared with a reference implementation, etc.  Those “practical” implementation activities have to be described in the SoW too.
                
                
                - [ ]  <21/08> (Eric+Jeans) Add to the SoW activities related to the validation of the WG results through its application to a practical use case
- Discussion about polymorphic operators: *we have to provide a specific specification for every types supported by an operator,* i.e., there will be a specification of the CONV operator for int8, float16, etc. This is in particular necessary for ints for which saturation is necessary. We should do the exercise on the CONV operator.
    
    
    - [ ]  <21/08> (Mariem, Loïc, Eric, Augustin) Specify the CONV operator for int8 and (e.g., ) float16….
- We have to specify the broadcasting rules (see [https://github.com/onnx/onnx/blob/main/docs/Broadcasting.md](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/blob/main/docs/Broadcasting.md)).
- Logistics
    - All documents should be in the same place. At the moment, some documents are on the IRT’s sharepoint while some other at in the ONNX github. Office documents where placed in the Sharepoint for they were directly editable by some users. For other (e.g., Airbus), Sharepoint documents need to be downloaded first, which make Sharepoint pointless.
    
    - [ ]  <21/08> (Eric) Convert the SOW to markdown, move all documents to github
    - The Sharepoint has moved in order to match the new project name, which is “SONNX”. The URL is now : [https://extranet.irt-saintexupery.com/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Pages/default.aspx](https://extranet.irt-saintexupery.com/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Pages/default.aspx)
    - The github repository is accessible at  [https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/tree/ericjenn-srpwg-wg1/safety-related-profile](https://github.com/ericjenn/working-groups/tree/ericjenn-srpwg-wg1/safety-related-profile).
    
    - [ ]  <21/08> (eric+Jean) Clarifies the use of github…

## Actions

- [x]  (eric) Put the examples of mails (in French and English) to be used for dissemination purposes.

- [x]  (eric) Propose a poll for the project’s name, (all) answer the poll
    - (Updated 21/08) SONNX

- [ ]  (eric+jean) Propose an agenda for the KOM

- [ ]  (all) Read the SOW and provide your feedback )
- (Updated 21/08) Comments by Nicolas, see doc.

- [x]  (Nicolas) Collect the analysis done so far and put it in one document (on sharepoint or on the ONNX git, it’s up to you)
    - Done, the document is on the sharepoint ([https://extranet.irt-saintexupery.com/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Work/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc=/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Work/Documents partages/SoW/ONNX format comments v0.1.docx&action=default](https://extranet.irt-saintexupery.com/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Work/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc=/Extranet/Projets/SONNX/Work/Documents%20partages/SoW/ONNX%20format%20comments%20v0.1.docx&action=default)”)

- [ ]  <10/07>(eric+jean) Organize some meetings as “advisory boards”
- [x]  <21/08> (Eric) Convert the SOW to markdown
