<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Thu Apr 4, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Follow up on action items from 2019-03-22 workshop
  * Brief refresh: [ONNX_WorkshopMar2019-Edge_WG_Session.pdf](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/workshops/ONNX_WorkshopMar2019-Edge_WG_Session.pdf)
  * Logistics updates
* Statement of Work
  * Expand on SoW abstract discussed in the workshop
    * How people prefer to work on it? Google doc or MD file in github?
  * Review draft version of proposal: [ONNX Edge Working Group SoW](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18M-i7yMfuMLnpsrUnyCCc5mosPIt7Q_lDNUQAQqZrBo/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Structure and sections
    * Consolidate with [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BACFyt3zfExZPO84oeytWMXxTovFTc7PGTQA2dQduJ0/edit?usp=sharing) from Yedong (@lyd911)
* Action items and goals for next meeting
  * Discussion

## Meeting Minutes

### Attendees
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qaulcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Howard Huang (Huawei)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Prasanth Pulavarthi (Microsoft)

### Notes
* Milan: noted that 2 agenda item were proposed by Howard: WG initial governance discussion and [ONNX Runtime For Edge Proposal](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UZrEHY_7AQYUXXRs1q4_FTKsS1KRuGMXzg0Vq7P5uBc/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Time permitting, will discuss [ONNX Runtime For Edge Proposal](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UZrEHY_7AQYUXXRs1q4_FTKsS1KRuGMXzg0Vq7P5uBc/edit?usp=sharing)
* Howard: Proposed not to have both co-chairs from one company, proposed one to be from Huawei. Being done in other open source communities ...
  * Prasanth: continue as-is for today
    * Working groups are temporary with a specific end goal, so the governance is not as strictly defined. Being chair is not a long term thing people are locked into.
    * Chair is a facilitator and should not have an impact on technical decision making. All contributors have equal say based on merit. If things are not working like this, please raise to steering committee.
    * Everyone may have needs to show participation, impact, etc. to their management, etc. Recommend the working group list all contributors, rather than just the chairs, so appropriate credit is given.
    * The other working groups don't yet have chairs from multiple companies. The governance doesn't explicitly call for it but it's something that can be beneficial if the chairs work together well.
  * Milan: Qualcommm took on chair role to drive and facilitate to make progress ... Group is open to contributions from everybody who wants to participate.
  * Ofer: proposed capturing WG contributors in [Edge README.md](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/README.md)
* Logistics updates
  * Milan: Based on survey replies, and group discussion, proposed future meetings to be bi-weekly on ***Wednesdays 8:00 am PST***.
    * Asked folks who did not reply to survey to do so by *Fri Apr 12*.
    * As it stands now, next meeting is on ***Wed Apr 17, 8:00am PST***
  * Meeting agenda will be proposed up to 7 days before the meeting by WG chairs, but proposals to agenda item updates are welcomed from all contributors via gitter.
  * Document review approach was discussed
    * We agreed that we will use Google doc for draft reviews until we get to final doc proposal, at which point it will get transcribed into .md and committed to [Edge working-groups github repo]( https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/tree/master/edge)
  * Meeting recordings
    * Proposal was made to record meetings, the group agreed. Milan started recording from that moment on (about 20 minutes into the meeting).
* [ONNX Edge Working Group SoW](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18M-i7yMfuMLnpsrUnyCCc5mosPIt7Q_lDNUQAQqZrBo/edit?usp=sharing) discussion
  * Reviewed  structure and sections. Decided to add Collaboration section
  * Contributions should not be limited to documents only. Code contributions as appropriate and in coordination/alignment with other WGs and SIGs is ok too.
  * Goal is to consolidate relevant elements from Yedong's [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BACFyt3zfExZPO84oeytWMXxTovFTc7PGTQA2dQduJ0/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Howard: Transcribed [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BACFyt3zfExZPO84oeytWMXxTovFTc7PGTQA2dQduJ0/edit?usp=sharing) from Yedong into .md and posted PR.  Need to review.

### Action Items
* **Everybody**: Reply to [Find a time for ONNX Edge WG meetings](https://forms.gle/p78myFhxS7wvvq4A7) survey by *Apr 12*.
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording
* **Milan**: Capture WG governance / logistics/ contributors in [Edge README.md](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/README.md)
* ONNX Edge Working Group SoW
  * **Everybody**: Comment on the document
  * **Ofer/Milan**: Update and complete by next meeting
* **Everybody**: Comment on [ONNX Runtime For Edge Proposal](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UZrEHY_7AQYUXXRs1q4_FTKsS1KRuGMXzg0Vq7P5uBc/edit?usp=sharing) from Howard

