# Wed Dec 18, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Discuss messaging to/with SC on future WG engagements

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/a_2xBHU1RgQ)

### Attendees 
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Rohit Sharma (dnnCompiler) -  for last half of the meeting
 
### Notes
* Reviewed letter to SC

Dear ONNX SC members,

As a co-chair, I am writing this letter representing the ONNX Edge WG. The below content is reviewed by the current active members of the WG. We are seeking an advice on matters that involve future WG engagements. 

The Edge WG is at the point where we are not certain if WG should continue, or perhaps be paused for a while, and want to get guidance from SC. There are several reasons that we are considering this.
1.  Original SoW has been under review for last 3 months. The WG have started with idea of defining static edge profiles, defining attributes and methodology which would be used by various hardware vendors for compliance purposes. There is ongoing debate about need to define execution mode compliance and related to “general purpose computing” devices and how/if they can be truly compliant to static edge profiles. This topic has been brought up in last workshop in Shanghai.
2.  We have representatives from only 3 hardware vendors actively participating, so there is a question of legitimacy for the community of any approach we select. There are many hardware vendors out there, and as it appears not much interest on this topic.
3.  The execution mode / operating environment control recommendations (e.g. through an API or ONNX model attributes or something else) have larger scope than Edge. It is more of the Infrastructure SIG topic. 

We are looking for the guidance from SC about how we should proceed. The scope that we started with appears to be constraining us, it evolved into broader domain which has impact beyond our definition of Edge. Perhaps a new WG should be formed to address it.
Given above, we are recommending that Edge WG should at least be paused until there is evidence that there is enough interest in the topic. Alternatively, it could evolve into different WG with charter to cover broader scope of compliance.

Best regards.
ONNX Edge WG


### Action Items
* **Milan**: Send email to Prasanth Pulavarthi, CC WG members 

