<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Jun 19, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Continue reviewing "Edge scope and profile definition" document.
  * PR discussion: https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/AR_RYjpZVKE)

### Attendees
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm)

### Notes
* Yedong updated the document before the meeting based on comments from Ofer and Milan
  * Updated document is [Here](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/files#diff-5a9f20e897606cb780825b9766d9b172)
* Yedong continued to walk through the document
  * All comments were pretty much accepted as is.
  * **Milan**: Suggested adding some diagrams into document, e.g. for depicting edge scope. Showed candidate diagram for "Scope of edge" section.
    * **Ofer**: Agreed, and proposed putting drawings into Google drive slides for ease of access and editing.
    * **Yedong**: Agreed. Also suggested putting drawing under "Edge profile section", e.g. radar chart from March workshop slides (slide 20).
  * **Milan**: Hard to know if currently identified profile attributes are sufficeint. We will not know until we finish defining edge profiles and corresponding scenarios. Should be ok, we can go back and update this document if we find a need for more attributes.
    * **Ofer**: suggested we test it, try to define 2-3 test profiles using existing attributes and see if they provide enough "resolutioin" to describe profiles. Took action item for next meeting.
  * **Ofer**: Should we use these attributes quantitatively or qualitatively? Should there be a range of values when defining profile?
    **Yedong**: Suggested we go with value ranges, that seems more practical. All agreed. We will test it when we start defining profiles.
* We have one more meeting to go in June, set goal was to complete and publish this document in 2019Q2.
  * Goal is to achive that in next meeting, and complete review and have document ready to publish into artifacts

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Jun 26, 2019.
* **Yedong**: Make updates to the document based on discussion today.
* **Ofer**: Define 2 test profiles using currently identified attributes. Will review in next meeting.
* **Milan**: Publish block diagram drawings we discussed in the meeting to google drive doc.
* **All**: Final review comments to document in [PR](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/).
  * Goal is to complete the review and have document ready to publish into artifacts.
