<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Oct 16, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Updates to WG timeline/milestones and SoW

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/oshcYdcxh5U)

### Attendees
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Manash Goswami (Microsoft)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm)

### Notes
* Started by going over the [Edge WG SoW](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/artifacts/onnx-edge-wg-sow.md)
  * Identified the following issues in deliveries :
    * No.3 needs to be updated to reflect the new apporach, of multiple profiles per device
    * No.4 needs to change to "collaborate with Operator SIG", as there's no quantization WG
    * No.5 - currently no active ModelZoo SIG. Put on hold
    * Add a new delivery : creating a document (white paper) describing the different options for sets of profiles, with initial suggested set per option. See more details below.
  * Adjust goals as follows :
    * 2019Q3 - write the white paper described above, do a survery to select between options, and decide on an intial set
* Defining the Profiles
  * Manash suggested to capture the set of profiles first, before defining them
  * A few different ways to define profiles :
    * Initial direction : one profile per device (like "smart speaker") - suggestion is to depreate this approach
    * Based on "sensor" type (Video, Audio, Speech) and level (Low, Mid, High)
    * Based on Network type (Classification, Segmentation, NLP) and level
  * Ofer suggested to write a white paper and create a survey, similar what the foundation WG did
* Applying/using the Profiles
  * Ofer - Profiles can be provided to the runtime/backends in few ways :
    * A new optional field in the ONNX container.
      * Not mandatory, as it may be hard for converter to support it initially - the App/Runtime may come and "edit" the container to add a profile before sending it to the backend
      * To implemnt it, converters will need to know what each profile means to examine the model and fill the value
    * A sideband API to specify the profile
  * Manash - How are profiles supported from the HW point of view ?
    * Ofer - One way is to document on a website which HW supports which profiles (based on conformance). Another way is to have an API to specify which profiles are supproted
    * Ofer - IMO, APIs are outside of the scope of the current WG. In general the ONNX project focused on the container, and the way to use it (e.g APIs) is left for frameworks and runtimes implementers
  * Saurabh - Static vs. Dynamic profiles. An App may want to directly control attribute value, for example run a model with accuracy which is higher than specified in the static profile, or latency which is smaller
    * Ofer - If this is part of an API, believe its outside of the scope. But, if we suggest that profiles are embedded in the container, than its possible to support it by allowing to specify addtibute values.

### Action Items
* **Ofer**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
* **Ofer**: Update SoW based on discussion
* **Ofer**: Propose initial draft for profile sets white paper, and work out survey
