<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Sep 04, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda

* Aug23 workshop follow up - summary
* What do we do next?
  * Edge profile as execution mode control
  * Profile topology map

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/KsjM9m9p_L0)

### Attendees
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)

### Notes
* Workshop readouts from Ofer and Saurabh
  * [ONNX_WorkshopAug2019-Edge_WG_Session.pdf](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/workshops/ONNX_WorkshopAug2019-Edge_WG_Session.pdf)
* Discussed [Edge profile as execution mode control](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/commit/7539dce2cf6c45695ae8717ede6f1d2528c528ee#diff-6ea8a11a2d9744be5a0a63ad62405f02)
  * Proposal requires extendig the scope and updates to SoW, as it alters meaning of the profile we specified so far, which is about devide comliance/certification.
  * Milan suggested we do not change WG SoW at this point. Execution control is a good idea but seems to be a topic beyond just Edge which is focus of this WG.
    We could make recommendation to Infra SIG to consider though. Or perhaps a new WG could be formed?
* Milan suggested we proceed with definiton of profiles as we agreed upon so far and see how well it comes out, and then consider in what ways it could be extended towards execution control.
  * Saurabh thought that Edge profiles are fairly static and do not scale well for devices such as laptop as it's capabilities are extensible (e.g. by virtue of plugging in a usb stick).
  * Milan stated that device characteristics (such as compute capabilities) need to be specified at time of compliance test. Different laptop configuration is different device spec.


### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Sep 18, 2019, 8:00am PST. To be announced via gitter.
* **Milan**: Prepare one topology map profile for review: 2D Image - Basic


