<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Apr 17, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Statement of Work
  * Review / finalize proposal: [ONNX Edge Working Group SoW](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18M-i7yMfuMLnpsrUnyCCc5mosPIt7Q_lDNUQAQqZrBo/edit?usp=sharing)
* Action items and goals for next meeting
  * Discussion

## Meeting Minutes

### Attendees
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qaulcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Bogdan (Software AG)

### Notes
* **Milan**: Asked everybody to acknoledge recording of the meeting
* **Milan**: made updates to [Edge README.md](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/README.md). Please comment or create issue to update further.
* [ONNX Edge Working Group SoW](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18M-i7yMfuMLnpsrUnyCCc5mosPIt7Q_lDNUQAQqZrBo/edit?usp=sharing) Review
  * **Goal is to complete and have final document ready in the next meeting.**
  * **Saurabh**: asked about realation to docs from Howard / Yedong.
  * **Milan**: PR from Howard is a summary of discusion that took place in Nov 2018 ONNX workshop.
  * **Yedong**: Created new PR [ONNX Edge Scenario Discussion](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/3), update to Howard's PR.
  * **Ofer**: Documents submitted by Yedong and Howard (Huawei) are great starting points for definiton of edge profiles. Once we define SoW.
  * **Ofer**: suggested creating "discussion materials" folder where docs like the one from Howard / Yedong could be placed into. There was no objection to this suggestion.
  * **Saurabh**: About MLPerf, are they comitted to ONNX as input format? Consider other benchmarking partners if MLPerf does not work out.
    * E.g. [TPC](http://www.tpc.org/), [AIBench](http://www.aibench.org/)
  * **Milan**: Bechmarking is related to compliance. We need to initiate contact with other ONNX groups as a heads up for cooperation.
  * **Ofer**: We could encourage benchmarking orgs to participate in ONNX WG if they want to influence or contribute with purpose of alignment with their work.
  * **Milan**: Working with Prasanth on logistics to publish meeting recordings to [ONNX youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIg4Cceqra3rtJEC5LPTdtw)

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting ***Wed May 1st 2019 at 8:00am PST***.
* ONNX Edge Working Group SoW document review
  * **Everybody**: closing comments on the document.
  * Goal for next meeting is to finalize document, do acceptance vote and submit for approval to steering committee.
* **Milan**: Handle PRs and create discussion_materials folder.


