<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Aug 21, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda

* Review WG update slides for Aug23 workshop
* Review proposal for top level profile breakdown map
* Review "Profile Compliance Workflow" proposal

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/XLYhGEPW3mM)

### Attendees
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)

### Notes
* **Milan** Updated everybody about communication initiated with Steering Committee, in preparation for the workshop, raised concerns about community participation and ultimatelly relevance of Edge WG.
  * Will bring it up in the workshop.
* **Milan** Presented draft of slides for Aug23 workshop
  * Groups reviewed, we made some changes, but in general looked ok.
  * Ofer made coment we should flush out what edge is status update.
  * Saurabh indicated perhaps we should highlight that profiles are about execution/inference compliance
  * Need to add some slides for Breakout session as per agenda. Ofer - about prototype profile, Saurabh - Profile compliance workflow
  * Group agreed, Milan will share slides over the email for further review, and Ofer will schedule a follow up meeting tomorrow to finalize.
  * Milan is out on vacation starting tomorrow. Ofer will be master editor of the slides and presenter in the workshop.
* Discussed proposal for profile topology map
  * https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/edge/discussion_materials/onnx-profile-topology-map.md
  * Ofer - good approach, profile definiton can be tied to data sensor/input type, so today it is 2d image and audio, but new profiles can be added in future for other input types
  * Saurabh suggested that data locality does not have to be binary attribute, could be connected to bandwidth requirment
  * In general proposal is worth pursuing further, we should bring it up in workshop for discussion.
* Did not get to third item on agenda, "Profile Compliance Workflow" proposal. To be added to agenda for next meeting.

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Sep 4, 2019, 8:00am PST. To be announced via gitter.
* Prepare and review slides for Breakout Session.
  * **Ofer**: Prototype profile, profile topology map
  * **Saurabh**: profile coompliance workflow
  * **Ofer**: Schedule meeting for tomorrow Aug 22, to review


