# Wed Jun 26, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Finalize "Edge scope and profile definition" document review.
  * https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/. All, please comment directly in PR.
  * Goal is to complete the review and have final document ready to publish into artifacts.
* Miscellaneous
  * Operators SIG interaction
  
## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/iNw9sVj9ZVQ)

### Attendees 
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm) 
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)

### Notes
* We discussed next steps for finalizing [Edge scope and profile definition](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6)document.
  * As per process we defined, document needs to be published to artifacts folder.
  * As per our SoW, goal to publish this document in 2019Q2.
* We agreed to proceed as follows
  * Yedong to make one more update of the document, for new comments and add drawings. 
  * Milan to merge PR afterwards. Document will show up in discussion_materials folder.
  * Continue review discussion (if needed) through an issue in github. We can do acceptance vote through the issue as well.
  * Create an PR for final document in "artifacts" folder. Merge once approved by the group.
  * Complete by Jun 30
* **Milan**: Pointed to Operators SIG meetings. First meeting was 2 weeks ago. Another one today. 
  See [Operators SIG gitter](https://gitter.im/onnx/operators). There is agenda item (organize operators by domain) which may have overlap with edge profile definition.
  Milan plans to attend today's meeting to bring it up. Saurabh will follow up with participants from Intel in that regard as well.
* **Milan**: ONNX SIGs steering committee published [SIGs Best Practices](https://github.com/onnx/sigs/blob/master/best-practices.md) and asked if the same set of rules should be applied to WGs.  Milan replied that it is fine, since that is already what Edge WG is doing.
* Next meeting 
  * Review a few "prototype" profiles (main purpose is to test profile definition through attributes)
  * Review and establish profile definition template.
  

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Jul 10, 2019, 8:00am PST
* **Yedong**: Make updates to the document PR based on discussion today. 
* **Milan**: Merge PR. Conduct acceptance vote and publish to artifacts. Will coordinate with Yedong.
* **Ofer**: Define 2 test/prototype profiles using currently identified attributes. Will review in next meeting.
* **Milan**: Profile definition template proposal

