# Wed Sep 25, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* General sync up on action items
  
## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/gXx21onDLGs)

### Attendees 
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Manash Goswami (Microsoft) 
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
 
### Notes
* It was ahort meeting, primarily to sync up on next steps
* Manash from Microsoft joined WG for the first time. Planning to be regular going forward.
* Action item from Sep 4 meeting, to prepare one topology map profile for review: 2D Image - Basic.
  * Milan explained could not get to it due to heavy work obligations
* Discussed milestones
  * Manash suggested we set some deliverable goals before next workshop (Nov 18 in Shanghai)
  * Looked over existing SoW. We need to update milestones to adjust to current situation.
* Manash suggested we could try to align profile toloplogy definiton with version of ONNX spec release, 1.7 is coming in Q4
 

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Oct 9, 2019, 8:00am PST. To be announced via gitter.
* **Milan**: Propose updated timeline/milestones 
* **Milan**: Will try to prepare "2D Image - Basic" profile draft 

