<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Aug 7, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda

* Proposal for top level profile breakdown map
* Aug 23 Workshop alignment

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/vV0ig2ZyOGQ)

### Attendees
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)

### Notes
* **Milan** Due to light attendance, decided not to discuss profile topology map proposal.
  * Will consider another meeting next week.
* **Milan** Aug23 workshop - asking for input from contributors about info we should share.
  * Planning to review workshop update slides in WG Aug 21 meeting.
* General discusson
  * Updated Saurabh about discusisons in last 2 meetings.
  * Discussed end goals of edge profiles. Compliance and interaction with Architecture/Infrastructure SIG.
* **Saurabh** Proposed to put together "Profile Compliance Workflow" proposal. To be added to agenda for next meeting.

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Aug 14 or 21, 2019, 8:00am PST. To be announced via gitter.
  * Follow up on gitter about having meeting next Wed
* **Saurabh**: Prepare "Profile Compliance Workflow" proposal.


