# Wed Jul 10, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda

* Review a few "prototype" profiles (main purpose is to test profile definition through attributes)
* Profile definition template proposal: discussion
* Update about SIGs and their activity, and interaction we should take
  
## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/FUwzJMuWaUY)

### Attendees 
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm) 

### Notes
* Short meeting today. No review material for the agenda items.
  * Groups decided to have a follow up meeting next week.
* **Milan**: Short update on acceptance status of "Edge scope and profile definition" document. As per replies in https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/issues/7 document is accepted. Did not receive reply from Saurabh yet, but majority of contributors approved it.
Next step is to copy document to artifacts folder.
* **Milan**: Dialed in to last Operators SIG meeting and brougth up Edge WG work in context of operator domains, to ensure we do not duplicate work. SIGs first reaction was that there is no overlap, but will see, now they are aware of Edge WG work.
* **MIlan**: Other SIGs came alive in gitter and github as per defined process: Infra, Converters

### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: Jul 17, 2019, 8:00am PST 
* **MIlan**: Copy "Edge scope and profile definition" document from discussion_materials to artifact folder.
* **Ofer**: Define at least one "prototype" profile using currently identified attributes. Will review in next meeting.
  * Work with Milan to combine that with proposal for profile definiton template.
 
