# Wed Jun 12, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* Continue reviewing "Edge scope and profile definition" document.
  * Yedong updated the document based on comments
  * Updated document is [Here](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/54c5c7b7a7b56b04bcfe5f48c10b250e6d625d42/edge/discussion_materials/ONNX%20Edge%20scope%20and%20profile%20definition.md)

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/7CJeQdPq2mQ)

### Attendees 
* Ofer Rosenberg (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)

### Notes
* Yedong continued to walk through the document
* **Yedong**: as agreed on previous meeting, connectivity is a state that a device has, not an attribute. A device can be connected or not. 
  * **Ofer**: Is there a scenario where a device doesn’t have any connectivity ?
  * **Yedong**: the assumption is that there’s always connectivity in the wider term. Not just internet, but Bluetooth/USB/etc. 
  * **Saurabh**: How does having connectivity or not affects the edge devices ?
  * **Ofer**: It affects the use-cases that the device needs to support. In case of Hybrid Processing, network processing is split to two : part is processed on the device and part is in the cloud. As an example, take voice processing. A Hybrid scenario will have one network running on the device, passing it to the cloud for further processing. Without connectivity, all processing is done on the device. This implies different set of capabilities / processing power.  
* **Ofer**: Current way the document is written, it describes a single profile. It needs to be extended to multiple profiles
  * **Yedong**: We need to look at it from ONNX point of view. We said that “Edge” relates to quantized operators, and defines a subset of operators to be supported. 
  * **Ofer**: Right, but each profile has different use cases. Based on the SoW we want to define conformance testing to validate use-cases, which in ONNX terms means set of models and validating the outputs. Trying to define one set that applies to all edge devices will either make this test set too small, or limit the types of devices that can pass it. That’s where profiles can help, by defining different test set per profile 
* **Ofer**: Looking at the SoW, we want to finish reviewing this document by end of this month. We have only one bi-weekly meeting scheduled by then, on June 26th. Shall we add another one on the June 19 th ?
  * **Yedong**: Agree. 
  * **Saurabh**: Agree
  * **Ofer**: Good. Will take it with Milan, and update.       
### Action Items
* **Ofer**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: We are considering adding one on Jun 19. We'll update on gitter.
* **Yedong**: Make updates to the document based on discussion today. 
* **All**: Please post comments to document in [PR](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/). 
We will continue with review in next meeting.
