# Wed Jun 05, 2019 at 8:00am PST

## Agenda
* "Edge scope and profile definition" document review.
  * Yedong posted doc in [PR](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/)

## Meeting Minutes
* [Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/ivL8pM6a9cY)

### Attendees 
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Yedong Liu (Huawei)
* Saurabh Tangri (Intel)

### Notes
* Yedong walked us through the [document he posted for the review](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/)
* **Saurabh**: In context of Edge scenario section, asked about PC scenario, as it was not obvious to him if it belongs to Edge. PC contains several subsystems (like camera and audio) that by itself can be considered edge profiles.
  * **Milan**: commented that considering that Edge scope is pretty much defined as !Cloud, PC is an Edge device. Brought up possibility to have a composite Edge profile. In this context the PC scenario is similar to Car or Phone scenario.
  * **Yedong**: will update section to clarify that PC as included in scenario examples.
* **Milan**: In context of Edge Device section, asked for clarification about connectivity, and that we should not limit connectivity to internet only.
This is to cover for scenarios where edge device is connected via other means like usb, or pcie.
  * **Saurabh**: Make sure we differentiate connectivity in context of state vs. capability. E.g. device can have connectivity capability, but not be in connected state. 
* In context of Edge profile metrics/attributes section, discussed if Accuracy should be an attribute. 
Is it data/math type what really matters, e.g. integer vs. float compute? Also if "Compute capabilities" or "Compute resource constraints" should be attribute, if we need to separate edge profiles based on it. Is Latency/Speed and Size sufficient?
Data/math type compute capability could be covered though a subset of operations identified for an edge profile. 
There was no conclusion, this was an open discussion. Will continue in next meeting.
  
### Action Items
* **Milan**: Publish meeting minutes and recording.
  * Next meeting: ***Wed Jun 12 2019 at 8:00am PST***
* **Yedong**: Make updates to the document based on discussion today. 
* **All**: Please post comments to document in [PR](https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/pull/6/). 
We will continue with review in next meeting.

  
 
