# ONNX RNG Writeup

## Introduction

Psuedo-Random Number Generators (PRNGs) provide a stream of random numbers produced by computing specific functions of some hidden state variables. The generation of each random number modifies the state of the PRNG, and the generated random number is a deterministic function of the state. The initial state is a function of some seed value, when left unset this is typically chosen based on the system clock, though this makes the sequence of numbers not reproducible. Typically the PRNGs are designed such that the sequence of generated values has as little statistical correlation as possible, though different PRNG algorithms have different detectable biases. For many PRNGs repeatedly seeding them and drawing a single value will produce a lower quality stream of random numbers in terms of more detectable correlations, than having a single PRNG and drawing from it in sequence. We won't discuss the choice of PRNG algorithm any further, beyond requiring a "splittable" PRNG which will be defined in section 3.

The deterministic nature of PRNGs makes them extremely attractive for reproducible computations, allowing the same sequence of outputs for the same seed. When used in multithreaded environments it is important to control access to the PRNG if a deterministic sequence is required, as otherwise there could be multiple interleavings of different threads and it will be unclear which thread received which numbers. For a more detailed examination of PRNGs and reproducible ML computations there's [Wonsil et al](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3589806.3600039), a paper from my group and our academic collaborators at UBC on the design of a reproducible ML training system.

We'll use two running examples where random number generation may be used inside an ONNX graph:

- Sampling a token from an LLM output, concretely we have a d-dimensional vector containing a probability distribution over d vocabulary items, we sample a single uniform value from the range 0-1, compute the CDF of the probability distribution, find the bucket which contains the sampled value with a loop or binary search, then return the index of that bucket.
- Initial generation of a diffusion image, sample a tensor [w,h,d] from a normal distribution, scale it to the appropriate mean & variance and return it.

## Current state of ONNX RNGs

The existing ONNX spec has 4 operations which sample from PRNGs: RandomNormal, RandomNormalLike, RandomUniform, RandomUniformLike. RandomNormal produces values from a normal distribution with the shape, mean, variance, and dtype specified as attributes. RandomUniform produces values from a uniform distribution with the shape, lower bound, upper bound, and dtype specified as attributes. RandomNormalLike and RandomUniformLike are the same as their respective sampling operations but accept an input tensor which is used to derive the shape and dtype of the sampled values.

The specified operations do not note if the underlying PRNG is stateless, what should happen if the graph is executed multiple times, or the behaviour of the op if the seed is not specified. For the seed the spec notes "Seed to the random generator, if not specified we will auto generate one." but it is not clear if this means each time the op is executed it will generate one, or if it will generate one when the graph is instantiated. This specification admits multiple implementations with very different behaviour, we'll discuss the behaviour of the reference implementation and ONNX Runtime's CPU execution provider.

### Reference Implementation

The reference implementation in the ONNX repo has two behaviours:

- when seeded each time the op is executed it produces exactly the same value
- when unseeded it generates a fresh numpy random state seeded from the time and draws a value from it

Considering our two running examples, the seeded version will:
- for the LLM it generates exactly the same number each time the graph is executed, so as each token is generated by the LLM it will produce the same random value and the token at the corresponding index in the CDF will be emitted. This does not mean it will emit the same token as the probability distribution is input data dependent, but it will induce correlations in the output that would be visible.
- for the diffusion it will emit exactly the same noise each time the graph is executed, resulting in the same image if the user supplies the same text, and likely correlated images for correlated input text.
These behaviours might seem desirable, but changing the seed to get a different output (which is common in diffusion) will require rebuilding the ONNX graph as the seed is an attribute.

In the unseeded version:
- the LLM will generate a different random value each time the graph is executed, however the trace of random values will be unknown and the LLM generation will not be replicable. If the user provides the same prompt they will get a different generated answer. If there are multiple executions of the graph within the same timestamp they will receive the same random numbers.
- the diffusion will emit different noise each time the graph is executed, and the user will not be able to reproduce an image as the state of the PRNG is unknown. Again if there are multiple executions in the same timestamp (e.g., in different processes) then they will produce the same random numbers, and potentially the same image.
These behaviours are reasonable given the seed is unset, however they are very different to the seeded behaviour, in the seeded case each graph execution is identical, in the unseeded case each graph execution is different.

### ONNX Runtime

ONNX Runtime's CPU EP has a single behaviour, on graph construction a C++ PRNG is instantiated for each Random op, either using the seed from the op attr, or a seed generated from the startup time of ORT plus the node id (to ensure different seeds for different nodes). Each random op is then stateful, it contains a PRNG which has state that is mutated as new random values are drawn (i.e., as the op is executed), and so each execution of the graph will emit a different random value. This is advantageous for many use cases, but does not provide a repeatable stream of random numbers as ORT is multi-threaded and allows concurrent execution of the nodes so there are multiple interleavings of the random number stream.

Considering the two running examples, the seeded version will:
- for the LLM it generates a sequence of random numbers which starts from a repeatable place (in that a single thread executing the same graph with the same sequence of inputs will produce the same sequence of sampled values). If there are multiple threads then the sequence of sampled values will be different as there will be an interleaving of the op executions.
- for the diffusion there will be a sequence of random numbers generated for each image starting from a repeatable place, again with a single thread. For multiple threads then there is an interleaving which will be unobservable to the user.

The unseeded version will be essentially the same however the user will be unable to recover the starting state of the PRNG, so they won't be able to repeat the sequence of numbers in either a single-threaded or a multi-threaded case.


## Splittable and Stateless PRNGs

The need for repeatable deterministic PRNG computation in multi-threaded environments initially started with using a different PRNG in each thread, however they need to be initialized carefully otherwise there could be correlations in the output of the PRNGs which could contaminate some use cases. This led to the creation of "splittable" PRNGs, which allows a single PRNG to be "split" into `n` new PRNGs with each one producing a statistically independent stream of random values. These PRNGs are particularly applicable in fork-join style computations where a single thread dispatches a task to a thread pool which splits it into subtasks and schedules those on threads in the pool, as a single PRNG can be sent in with the task and split as the task is divided up. Assuming the task division is a static property of the data size, you get the same deterministic reproducible stream of random numbers generated if the task runs on one thread or many threads. These splittable PRNGs are built into Java 8+, and we've used them in ML applications to get reproducible parallel computations. The Java 8 algorithm is described in detail in [Steele et al. 2014](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2714064.2660195), and there's a fuller explanation of the topic in [Steele et al. 2021](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3485525) which describes the new PRNGs added to Java 17.

For computational graphs it's unusual for nodes in those graphs to have state as it's preferable the graph remains purely functional. ONNX Runtime's graph isn't purely functional due to the PRNG ops, though I think one built from the reference implementation would be purely functional. In Google's JAX PRNGs are both splittable and stateless for this reason, as the JAX graph is purely functional. A stateless PRNG is a functional form of a stateful PRNG, it accepts a PRNG state along with the request to generate a random number and emits an updated PRNG state along with the generated number. JAX's PRNGs are described [here](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/random-numbers.html).

## Proposed Behaviour

I propose that we either replace or update the spec of the existing PRNG ops so they are splittable & stateless. As the computation graph is static the split operations can be inserted automatically by tooling when the graph is loaded, so the main change will be that the PRNG ops will accept a state as an input and produce a state as an output. Alternatively, we could avoid computation at graph loading time by introducing a `SplitPRNG` op which accepts a PRNG state and produces `n` independent PRNG states. I'm unclear which is preferable as an explicit `SplitPRNG` op adds complexity to ONNX graph construction and allows for users to construct graphs which don't produce correct random number streams, while inserting it automatically on load requires spec complexity that all implementations would have to add. Verifying that the split op is used correctly might be simpler than inserting it automatically, so this could be added to the model verifier and I think this favours the `SplitPRNG` op solution.

There are three main cases of PRNG use in existing ONNX graphs:
- the simple case where the ops are all `RandomNormal` or `RandomUniform`, and no PRNG op appears inside a subgraph,
- graphs which contain PRNG ops inside subgraphs,
- graphs which contain `RandomNormalLike`, `RandomUniformLike` or if the existing `RandomNormal` and `RandomUniform` ops are changed to accept inputs as proposed in [#5034](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/5034).

### Simple `RandomNormal`/`RandomUniform`
In the case where all random sampling operations have no parents (i.e., no inputs), then the topological ordering of the nodes can be used to seed each one. We add a single `SplitPRNG` op to the graph, connect all the random sampling operations to it in the topological ordering of the ONNX graph (devolving to the input ordering if random sampling nodes are at the same level), add an extra input to the graph linked to the `SplitPRNG` op, and an extra output from one of the random sampling nodes (probably the first) which emits the `prng_state` from that random sampling operation. The input PRNG state could be made optional, and if unset then the ONNX implementation is allowed to generate an initial PRNG state in whatever way it sees fit.

### PRNGs inside subgraphs
In the case where there are PRNG operations inside subgraphs which may be executed multiple times, the inputs to the subgraph need to be augmented with a PRNG state, that state needs to be connected to the random sampling operations via a `SplitPRNG` operation, and a PRNG state needs to be added to the subgraph output. The subgraph can then be treated as a single random sampling operation as above. The ops which execute subgraphs need to be updated to loop back around the output PRNG state to the input PRNG state if the subgraph is executed multiple times (e.g., in `Loop`). Alternatively for ops which could execute the subgraph in parallel (e.g., `SequenceMap`) then a `SplitPRNG` operation could be inserted before the `SequenceMap` operation to split out a PRNG state for each execution of the subgraph (this latter strategy could be applied to the looping construct too, it would not affect the random number stream's quality).

### PRNGs with inputs
In the case where the random sampling operations have parents then there are other strategies available for distributing the PRNG state. We could trace the inputs through the graph and attach a phantom PRNG state to the first input & output of each node. Any time the input is reused we insert a split on the PRNG state, and any time a random sampling operation is performed we return the transformed state. This minimises the number of splits and localises them to where they are used. It's quite attractive if there is no explicit `SplitPRNG` op as it could be applied as a compiler transformation on ONNX graph loading, though it's harder to validate if there is an explicit `SplitPRNG` op and PRNG state is visible inside the ONNX graph.

### Summary

This will give perfect reproducibility for graphs that want it by allowing them to specify the PRNG state, it decouples the different threads which could be concurrently executing ONNX graphs giving them independent random number streams by generating different initial PRNG states, and if users do not require the determinism then they do not need to specify the PRNG state.

In our two examples:
- the LLM will have a single PRNG stream for a generation, which is completely deterministic and recordable by the user if they keep the original PRNG state (and the input string tensor). Regenerating from the same input with a different PRNG stream involves supplying a different input state, but that's not hard. If the user does not supply a PRNG state then the behaviour is roughly the same as it is currently, though the PRNG state could easily be recorded by the runtime allowing the user to post-hoc repeat that generation.
- the diffusion will produce repeatable outputs which are easily changeable by supplying a different PRNG state. If the user does not supply a PRNG state then the runtime can record the generated PRNG state and allow the user to regenerate the output deterministically.

To validate the correct use of the `SplitPRNG` op we need to walk the ONNX graph and ensure that each PRNG state is used as an op input at most once, that the uses of the PRNGs are topologically sorted the same as the ONNX graph, that the inputs to the random sampling and `SplitPRNG` ops are directly connected to a graph input, and that the output of a random sampling op or a `SplitPRNG` op  are directly connected to the graph output. It's also best if those PRNG states are not used by other ops, though I'm not sure if that should be enforced (users may wish to dump out all the PRNG states into a single tensor if they want to track everything).

One other consideration is to have the input PRNG state immediately split into two, one for that execution of the ONNX graph (fed into the top level `SplitPRNG` op), and the other returned as the PRNG state output. This decouples the PRNG state from the graph execution itself, meaning the PRNG state is no longer dependent on the number of iterations of the loop, or the size of the input tensors (e.g., if drawing a value once per row of a matrix). This is how we treat PRNG state in Tribuo (see Wonsil et al. 2023), and makes it much simpler to track the state of the system as the PRNG state of any graph execution can be directly derived from the initial state by applying `n` split operations sequentially where `n` is the number of times the graph has been executed.

## Proposed Operator Specifications

The `SplitPRNG` op spec along with an updated spec for `RandomUniform` is given below:

### SplitPRNG Op Spec

Split a PRNG state into multiple PRNG states ensuring statistical independence.

#### Inputs

`prng_state`: tensor(int64)
    Input PRNG state (typically 128-bits, so 2 int64 values)

#### Outputs (1-/infty)

`split_prng_states` (variadic): tensor(int64)
    One or more outputs forming a list of tensors containing PRNG states. It allows a single output to allow the insertion of a `SplitPRNG` operation before any use of a random sampling operation.


### RandomUniform Op Spec

Generate a tensor with random values drawn from a uniform distribution. The shape of the tensor is specified by the shape argument and the range by low and high.

The data type is specified by the 'dtype' argument. The 'dtype' argument must be one of the data types specified in the 'DataType' enum field in the TensorProto message.
#### Version

This version of the operator has been available since version X of the default ONNX operator set.

Other versions of this operator: 22, 1

#### Attributes

dtype : int (default is 1)
    The data type for the elements of the output tensor. If not specified, default is TensorProto::FLOAT.
high : float (default is 1.0)
    Upper boundary of the output values.
low : float (default is 0.0)
    Lower boundary of the output values.
shape : list of ints (required)
    The shape of the output tensor.

#### Inputs

`prng_state`: tensor(int64)
    Input PRNG state (typically 128-bits)

#### Outputs

`output` : T
    Output tensor of random values drawn from uniform distribution

`prng_state` : tensor(int64)
    Output PRNG state
    

#### Type Constraints

T : tensor(bfloat16), tensor(float16), tensor(float), tensor(double)
    Constrain output types to float tensors. 
