<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Nov 10, 2021 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Merging models - Compose Utils
* Control flow operator for batch processing
* Date/String operators for Kaggle preprocessing coverage

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Takuya Nakaike (IBM)
* Rodolfo Gabriel Esteves (Intel)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20211110.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20211110_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

Coming back to the discussion about merging ONNX graphs, Joaquin proposed a set of "Compose" utils that can be used to create combined models by merging graphs.
* The tools are not necessarily limited to preprocessing, and could also be used for other purposes such as postprocessing or simply chaining models
* The group agrees with the proposal and it will be sent to approval to the archinfra group.

We briefly discussed the idea of having a batch processing operator that can execute a subgraph on every sample in a sequence, concatenating the results into a single tensor at the end.
* Contributors are welcome.
* No volunteers so far. Joaquin will investigate the idea further.

Takuya presented a proposal for a Date parsing operator and String processing operators, that will allow to convert data preprocessing patterns on pandas dataframe to ONNX
* StringConcatenator and StringSplitter are already prototyped as extensions in onnxruntime.
* Date operator is to be considered.
* We discussed that the operators SIG would be a more appropriate forum for the discussion and review of such proposals
* This might concern the preprocessing group later on, due to the nature of the operator (e.g. non-differentiable)
