<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed May 11, 2022 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Status - Open issues/PRs
* Resize-17 - Antialias, axes and keep_aspect_ratio_policy
* ai.onnx.image.CenterCropPad
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Liqun Fu (Microsoft)
* Rodolfo G Esteves (Intel)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20220511.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20220511_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

* Status - Open issues/PRs
    - Next ONNX runtime release should support SequenceMap
    - There is an [outstanding issue in ONNX Runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10876). This makes SequenceMap unusable. There is a proposed fix in the issue report.
    - We agreed that sequence initializers are not necessary (no particular usecase for it), and we can simply remove the warning about not being able to constant-fold SequenceEmpty, to not to confuse users.
    - [SequenceMap tutorial](https://github.com/onnx/tutorials/pull/265) will wait for the ONNX runtime release.
    - [End-to-end preprocessing integration with ResNet-50](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/pull/11167) is work-in-progress as we will probably update it with the new op extensions as we merge them.
* Resize-17 - Antialias, axes and keep_aspect_ratio_policy
    - The Resize extension proposal was extended to have `axes` and `keep_aspect_ratio_policy` attributes.
    - `axes` allows users to select a subset of dimensions to be resized, while keeping others intact. For example, when resizing an image with `[H, W, C]` layout, the user can specify `axes=(0, 1)`, and provide only the desired height and width (no need to specify scale or size for the channel dimension). The same can be done with an image with `[C, H, W]` layout, by specifying `axes=(1, 2)`.
    - `keep_aspect_ratio_policy` allows resizing to some maximum or minimum dimensions, while keeping the original aspect ratio of the input. The default behavior is the current one, which is to stretch the input, disregarding the original aspect ratio.
    - The group agreed to initiate the review of [this PR](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4126).
* ai.onnx.image.CenterCropPad
    - First operator to introduce `ai.onnx.image` domain
    - [PR ready for review](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4190)
    - We discussed the implications of a new domain (does it mean it is part of the standard or not?)
    - After some consideration, the group decided that it is better to stay in the default domain for now, until we have a bigger picture on how we want to organize existing ops into domains.
    - Joaquin will adjust the PR to use the default domain.
