<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Oct 19, 2022 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Progress status - Open issues/PRs
* Next steps
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Natalie Kershaw (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)
* Xavier Dupre (Microsoft)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20221019.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20221019_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

### Status - Open issues/PRs
Few PRs/issues closed since the last time
- [Add Batch processing with SequenceMap tutorial](https://github.com/onnx/tutorials/pull/265)
- [Use RepeatedPtrField::Get ... to be compatible with protobuf 3.0 API](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4354)
- [Local functions with subgraphs: GraphProto attribute inferencing error](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10698)

### Future steps
- Next steps are publishing the	ResNet end-to-end models (including preprocessing)
- We discussed the possibility of either replacing existing models with their end-to-end counterparts or adding the new model separately, keeping the existing unmodified. The group agreed on publishing the end-to-end model separately without modifying the existing one.
- We discussed the possibility of publishing a separate	preprocessing-only model and letting the user combine it into a composite model with compose utils. The group agreed that it's simpler for the users to just pull the end-to-end model directly.

### Open floor
- We briefly discussed the possibility of looking into converters to include preprocessing. The	different nature of the data preprocessing pipeline (including a lot of custom code) would make it difficult to  have a generic converted. However, we could look into supporting some use cases. However, this particular topic falls a little bit outside of the scope of this group, and more to the scope of particular converter implementers. We will continue the discussin on the next meeting.

## Action items
- Natalie to discuss with teams working on converters.
