<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed June 8, 2022 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Status - Open issues/PRs
* ONNX Community Day 6/24/22
* Naming choice for models that include preprocessing
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20220608.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20220608_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

* Status - Open issues/PRs
    - There are some standing issues with SequenceMap in ONNX runtime: [Issue 1](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10876), [Issue 2](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10698)
    - Rama prepared a PR that reworks function expansion implementation in ONNX runtime and it should address those problems: [Restructure function inliner](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/pull/11731). Joaquin will double check if that solves the issues above.
    - The review of Resize-17 operator has been going on for a while with not much progress (2 months). It can be attributed to focus on the new ONNX release. There is an effort to find more volunteers to review PRs in the ONNX operators SIG. Joaquin will send a reminder to the Operators team slack channel.
    - There is an issue with CenterCropPad. The current implementation is trying to access the rank of the input in order to populates the default axes. This is problematic because we can only learn about statically shaped inputs. Joaquin will try to write an alternative path that won't use axes, when those are not provided. If there are obstacles with this approach, we agree to make `axes` a mandatory attribute.
    - Perhaps we don't need to extend Shape with `axes`, as we can use `Gather` operator easily as a second step. Joaquin will try this out.
* ONNX Community Day 6/24/22
    - 2-4 minute update from SIG/WG leaders
    - Joaquin can't attend, will pre-record a short presentation
* Naming choice for models that include preprocessing
    - Topic raised in #onnx-preprocessing Slack channel
    - Do we want to create a term to refer to models that include data preprocessing and if so, what should the term be.
    - We see no need in having a formal name for it, since it is not clear what constitutes preprocessing, and an ONNX model will not be fundamentally different for including some "preprocessing" steps.
    - We can always revisit this idea if necessary later on.
