<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Apr 13, 2022 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Status - Open issues/PRs
* Resize - Antialiasing
* Domain specific functions for higher level abstractions
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Liqun Fu (Microsoft)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)
* Rodolfo G Esteves (Intel)
* Michal Zientkiewicz (NVIDIA)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20220413.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20220413_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

* Status - Open issues/PRs
    - [SequenceMap function PR](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3892) has been merged. There is an [outstanding issue in ONNX Runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10876).
    - There is an [effort to rework the way functions are handled in ONNX runtime](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/pull/11167)
    - Two PRs started with tutorials about [using SequenceMap](https://github.com/onnx/tutorials/pull/265) and about [end-to-end integration with ResNet-50](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/pull/11167).
    - Joaquin will bring up the question of missing sequence initializers with the infra group.
    - Joaquin will try to update the ResNet-50 model to reflect a variable batch dimension (right now it is hardcoded to 1).
* Resize - Antialiasing
    - Joaquin proposed to extend `Resize` with an `antialias` flag, to apply an antialiasing filter when downscaling, as other libraries (PIL) use. The default (and current) is not to apply antialiasing, closer to other libraries (OpenCV).
    - Rama will initiate the review of [this PR](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4126).
* Domain specific functions for higher level abstraction
    - Joaquin presented the idea of having domain specific *functions* that are implemented as much as possible in terms of existing ONNX operators
    - The domain specific functions serve two purposes: Simplicity for common operations (e.g. CenteredCrop) and possibility for optimizations, as the backends might choose to offer a specialized implementation for those.
    - We discussed the possibility to deliver such domain specific functions as a separate library. This has its value for custom operations, however, we think that for general purpose operations like image processing, it is benefitial to make them part of the standard.
    - We agreed that when proposing domain specific functions, we will try to generalize as much as possible, to avoid necessary overlap in functionality (two functions applying two very similar operations, but expressed a bit differently).
* Open floor
    - SequenceMap has opset version 16, but was merged after the release. It should be adjusted to version 17.