<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed Mar 09, 2022 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* SequenceMap function - status update
* Using model local functions
* Sequence support in ONNX parser
* Resize and keep aspect ratio semantics
* (Wenbing Li) Intro about pre-processing in Microsoft

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)
* Natalie Kershaw (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Prasanth Pulavarthi (Microsoft)
* Wenbing Li (Microsoft)
* Rodolfo G Esteves (Intel)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20220309.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20220309_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

* SequenceMap function PR - status update
    - PR has one approval from Rama. It'd be good to have a second approval from Operators SIG.
    - It'd be good to have at least one usage example. Joaquin will prepare a model using SequenceMap to do batch processing and publish it to ONNX examples, as a reference.
* Model local functions. Several issues found in onnxruntime when working with model local functions. Rama will follow those up
    - https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10250
    - https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10249
    - https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/10698
    - We discussed the fact that functions don't have type/shape information in their signature, and they work more like a macro. We don't see a need to change that unless it poses a problem.
* Sequence support in ONNX parser
    - It'd be good to have support for sequences. We will continue this discussion later.
* Resize and keep aspect ratio semantics
    - To be discussed during the next meeting (lack of time)
* Wenbing did a presentation about the experience with pre-processing with ONNX in Microsoft
    - Converting arbitrary python code to an ONNX model representation automatically is going to be hard
    - Very different domains NLP / Vision / String / Audio / Math. We need to figure out a good strategy for categorizing the different domains in ONNX
    - Discussion to be continued

## Action items:
