<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed May 10, 2023 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Status
* Image decoder/encoder operator proposal
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Alexandre Eichenberger (IBM, ONNX)
* Liqun Fu (Microsoft)
* George Nash (Intel)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20230510.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20230510_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

### Status

- [Merged] Extend python API documentation - https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5156
- [Pending] Using ONNX parser in SequenceMap tutorial - https://github.com/onnx/tutorials/pull/277

### Image decoder/encoder operator proposal 

- As discussed previously, Joaquin proposed two operators: ImageDecode and ImageRead, used to load/decode images (as in cv2.imread or PIL.open)
- Supported formats are: BMP, JPEG, JPEG2000, TIFF, PNG, WebP, Portable image format (PBM, PGM, PPM, PXM, PNM), all of those easily supported through generic tools such as OpenCV or Pillow
- Backend implementers might decide to have specialized decoders as implementations, but the should be easy to implement via generic tools.
- Channel-last layout will be the default, as image processing pipelines usually operate with such layout.
- Chroma upsampling "linear" mode proposal matches what's done in libjpeg, which is not part of the JPEG standard. Most image toolkits use libjpeg under the hood, therefore using this kind of chroma upsampling
- The operator shall be open for extension, but attempt to cover the most typical use-case first.
- We discussed the possibility to support JPEG lossless formats, typically used in medical imaging. We've seen some work being done in libjpeg-turbo that would enable supporting lossless JPEGs easily, but for now we will keep it out of scope. 
- Image encoders were not yet discussed.
- ImageRead works with file paths and ImageDecode works with encoded streams.

## Open floor

### Date processing
- Alexandre Eichenberger talked about a proposal discussed in the roadmap meeting regarding date processing - https://github.com/onnx/steering-committee/blob/main/roadmap/2023-docs/18-date-parsing.pdf
- The preprocessing group has no objection to such proposal, but should be eventually reviewed by the Operators SIG.
- Joaquin will reach out to the original output to invite him to the upcoming meetings for further discussions.

### Medical: 3D GridSample, Grid generators, Sliding window inferer
- Liqun Fu talked about porting medical models (e.g. UNet-3D) from MONAI AI project to ONNX
- There are currently a few blockers:
* ND GridSample to support volumetric inputs - https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5010
* Grid generators to match Torch's affine_grid_generator - https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/4983
* SlidingWindowInferer
- The group agrees those proposals make sense and see no issues with it.
- The Operators SIG should agree with the details.

### Porting Microsoft preprocessing extensions to ONNX
- Alexandre Eichenberger asked whether we want to move some of the Microsoft extensions done for preprocessing to the ONNX standard
- Such work has been already started (as discussed in the previous meeting)
* ImageDecode is one of them
* BERT model is currently under analysis (Natalie Kershaw)


