<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wed April 19, 2023 at 8:00am PDT

## Agenda
* Status
* Image decoding operator - 
* Porting (more) models onnxruntime-extensions
* Open floor

## Atendees
* Joaquin Anton (NVIDIA)
* Natalie Kershaw (Microsoft)
* Xavier Dupré (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingan (Microsoft)
* Janusz Lisiecki (NVIDIA)

## Recording & Slides

* [Meeting Recording](https://lists.lfaidata.foundation/g/onnx-wg-preprocessing/files/onnx_preprocessing_20230419.mp4)
* [Meeting Slides](slides/20230419_slides.pdf)

## Meeting notes:

### Status

- [MERGED] Add a way to load a composite model (preprocessing + network) via onnx.hub - https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4976
- [MERGED] Add ResNet preprocessing model -https://github.com/onnx/models/pull/594
- [MERGED] Fix support for negative axes in Pad and CenterCropPad - https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5007
- [Pending] Using ONNX parser in SequenceMap tutorial - https://github.com/onnx/tutorials/pull/277

- We discussed the fact that the documentation of onnx.hub doesn't reflect the new action functions. Xavier address that in this PR: https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5156

### Image decoding operator

- We discussed the utility of having an image decoder operator and the possible attributes that the operator should have
- There are some options that would allow to match typical implementations (libjpeg) but would make it harder for implementers to comply with the spec. The rule of thumb is to add things that are generic and can be expressed mathematically.
- We discussed adding an "image" domain. We should have image encoders as well for some applications (e.g. super resolution)
- Image encoding is more complicated, as each format has its own encoding parameters. Because of that, it'd be easier to organize if we add dedicated format encoders: JpegEncoder, PngEncoder, etc.

### Porting (more) models onnxruntime-extensions

- We discussed that it'd be nice to port some of the work done in onnxruntime-extensions to the ONNX model zoo
- Would be interesting to see a new kind of application (e.g. NLP), to see if there are any gaps we didn't anticipate when working on the vision models.
- Natalie agreed to analyze the BERT use case and come back with a plan of the work that needs to be done to publish this to the hub (needed operators, etc).

### Open floor


## Action items
- Joaquin will come with a proposal for an initial version of the image decoder to the next meeting
- Xavier to look at the missing documentation in onnx.hub
- Natalie to analyze the BERT preprocessing model and share a plan
