1. Working on documents where only one person is involved:
- When a person is working alone on a document, they are invited to submit a "pull request" on GitHub. Once this request is made, Eric Jenn will be responsible for validating it.
3. Collaborative work on automatically mergeable documents with formats such as (e.g., .txt, markdown, read.me...) containing simple content or with a simple defined structure:
- In the case where multiple collaborators work on a mergeable document, each individual is able to submit their own "pull request". Due to the simple nature of the document, the merging process is considered trivial. Therefore, Eric Jenn will be responsible for merging and validating the "pull requests". This case only applies if the document is considered simple to merge.
4. Work on Non-Mergeable Documents (e.g., docx, ppt, excel) or complex documents requiring coordination:
- These documents will be identified, and for this type of non-mergeable document or if they require complex formatting and synchronization, a document manager will be designated. The manager will be responsible for defining the structure of the document and sending this document outline to each contributor via email (with the stakeholders of each section identified). The contributors will submit their results to the document manager via email. The document manager will aggregate the information by merging the different parts; They will also be responsible for publishing the document on GitHub at a frequency they deem appropriate, even if the document is not complete. In order to avoid any complex merges carried out by Eric, they will be the only one to submit the "pull request".
