<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday July 15, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Release process
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Operational guidelines
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Prasanth Pulavarthi (Microsoft)
* Wei-Sheng Chin (Microsoft)

## Notes
* Steering Committee updates
  * Mid Sept for 1.8, do we have enough new features? Should we do a time-based release or a feature-based? The current propoal is a time-based release around Sept-Oct. Will gather inputs from Steering Committee, working groups, and SIGs to finalize the plan.
  * Release manager to be identified 6 weeks before target date.
  * Align community meeting closer to release
* Reviewed the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * Adddional work to be done for approval? We would like to include the release verification details for 1.7 as a reference. Chin will follow up with the people who worked on release 1.7 verification.
* The release verification should to be clear, transparent, and automated if possible.
  * Current issue: dependency on some runtime and frontend converters
  * Proposed solutions: review https://github.com/onnx/working-groups/blob/master/release/docs/onnx_release_verification.md
  * Scenario 2 is more like what we have been practicing, define operator specs in onnx first and verify the spec in onnx runtime implementation. Winnie will update the doc to reflect our conclusion, ONNX runtime will be the primary backend to verify release candidates.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates
  * wheel builder and onnx feedstock
  * We will open an issue to track progress in ONNX repo (Chin to do)
* Did not have time to discuss the release operational guidelines
  * where to put the guidelines? ONNX or WG repo
* Release 1.8
  * Open an issue to communicate release date, scope, dependencies (Ashwini to do)

## Action items
* All - look into specific areas and prepare to provide proposals or updates
