# Wednesday July 29, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Steering committee update
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Operational guidelines
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Changming Sun (Microsoft)
* Faith Xu (Microsoft)
* Dmitri Smirnov (Microsoft)

## Notes
* Steering Committee updates
  * Release dependency needs to be defined (ONNX Runtime, etc). Should it depend on converters? We will recommend no dependency on converters.
  * Time based release with exit criteria documented (an issue in ONNX github) Do we have nough features for the time based release? Do we need big list of features? We will get advice from SC this afternoon.
  * Release package is quite large at the moment. Consider having multiple packages. (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2917) We recommend having scripts to generate data, not including test data in the release package, instead of creating two packages.
  * Where should ONNX Runtime live? 
* Reviewed the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * Requested for 1.7 verification details (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2614) Ashwini to follow up with Zeeshan.
  * A key problem is release 1.7 is that shape inference can be verified only if op is implemented.
  * New ops need to have python reference implementation based on a backend. The CI will cover node level tests. Still need release verification.
* The release verification should to be clear, transparent, and automated if possible.
  * Scenario 2 is the practical choice, ONNX runtime will be the primary backend to verify release candidates.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates
  * wheel builder and onnx feedstock
  * Opened an issue to track progress in ONNX repo (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2904). We should consolidate build process in one place, Github Actions or wheel_builder. More investigation is needed and Changming doesn't have time to make the change for 1.8. Likely the 1.8 process will be the same as 1.7.
* Release operational guidelines
  * where to put the guidelines? ONNX or WG repo
* Release 1.8
  * Open an issue to communicate release date, scope, dependencies. Ashwini will open an issue after clarifying the date/features with SC.

## Action items
* All - look into specific areas and prepare to provide proposals or updates
