# Wednesday August 19, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Steering committee update
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Operational guidelines
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)

## Notes
* Steering Committee updates
  * Do we have enough features for the time based release?
  * Workshop is scheduled for 10/14, aligned with release, indicating release 1.8 should be mid-late Oct. 
* Review the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * Requested for 1.7 verification details (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2614) 
  * The release verification process updates: reached out to developer, will be followed up.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates
  * wheel builder consolidation with github actions: suggest to first update the existing env setup in wheels_builder for 1.8 and work on consolidation later
  * onnx feedstock enable Windows conda package: a resource is identified, however would like to know whether Tobias has made progress.
  * Opened an issue to track progress in ONNX repo (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2904)
* Release operational guidelines
  * release process doc + release tracking issue
* Release 1.8
  * Open an issue to communicate release date, scope, dependencies (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2942)
  * Identify release manager? In next release WG meeting
  * Release features/highlights? Will follow the roadmap discusssions and update the tracking issue
* New and updated operators
  * Hard to see the new and updated operators between releases. opeartor.md and operator_sets.h provide the list however no details on the changes. It would be very helpful for ONNX users and developers to see the spec changes and additions in one place.

## Action items
* Identity 1.8 release features and associate them with SC roadmap doc
* Look into wheel builder env updates for release 1.8
* Fix Windows conda package and install, identify the resource to work on this high priority item for 1.8
* Identify and document release verification process
