# Wednesday Sept 2, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Rajeev Nalawadi (Intel)
* Jason Plurad (IBM)

## Notes
* Review the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * The release verification process updates: reached out to developer, expect to get updates next meeting. Should identify what has been done and how to run it so anyone can do it for future releases.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2904)
  * wheel builder update for new env setup for 1.8: nothing is broken, need to update environment and dependency versions, such as python and protobuf
  * onnx feedstock enable Windows conda package: currently working on it, priority
* Release 1.8 (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2942)
  * Identified release manager, will join next meeting
  * Plan release date, doesn't have to be after workshop which is on Oct 14. The exact date will be determined based on features and roadmap discussions in a couple of weeks.
  * Release features/highlights, to be summarized and documented by release manager
* New and updated operators
  * How/where to see the new and updated operators between releases? Open an issue to track the desired feature. Would like make clear the changes in detail including defaults, data types, attributes vs inputs, new or optional attributes, logic changes. Description might need to be added to source code for doc generation.

## Action items
* Identify release verification details
* Look into environments and dependencies for 1.8
