<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday Sept 30, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Jackie Chun-Wei Chen (Microsoft)
* Jason Plurad (IBM)

## Notes
* Review the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * The release verification process is not clear. The functional verification is by running some tests in ONNT runtime. We should document and close the PR by 1.8 release time. Details will come from Jackie.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2904)
  * onnx feedstock enable Windows conda package: Jason from IBM has confirmed that the Windows Conda package works with the onnx-tensorflow converter  * wheel builder update for new env setup for 1.8: Jackie will update it to use Azure pipelines
* Release 1.8 (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2942)
  * Release features/highlights: created a 1.8 milestone, deadline 10/9, in github with the release date and a few PRs are tagged for the release
  * Should we tag completed PRs? Easiest way to filter and identify the PRs for a particular release, which was done for 1.6 and 1.7. Up to the release manager to decide the final approach for 1.8.
  * How to gather inputs and provide summary for release notes? For 1.7, Chin went through 1. the the list of PRs for new and updated ops 2. ArchInfra SIG lead Ke for general highlights 3. Training working group leads for key additions for training support. For 1.8, we could ask SIG and WG leads to provide summary.

## Action items
