# Wednesday Oct 7, 2020 at 10:00am-10:30am PST

## Agenda
* Discussions
    * Release verification
    * Automation projects
    * Release 1.8

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Jacky Chun-Wei Chen (Microsoft)
* Anna June 

## Notes
* Review the updated release process doc (PR https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2866)
  * The release verification process will be documented. Jackie confirmed:
    * The functional verification is done by running node and shape inference tests in ONNX runtime, using a commit ID in ONNX repo release branch.
    * The package verification is done by running ONNX unit tests and model tests with model zoo models, using release candidates from TestPypi.
* A couple of release automation projects need some updates (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2904)
  * wheel builder is updated for release 1.8
* Release 1.8 (issue https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2942)
  * CI is much faster after transfer to travis.com
  * Python 3.5 has problem uploading packages. The solution is to upload to AWS. Jacky builds wheel files on the side and uploads manually.
  * There is on-going PRs in ONNX Runtime related to bumping up version number.
  * Currently verifying 1.8 candidate with converters. Fighting a bug in Tensorflow-ONNX now, expected to be resolved by the end of week.
  * ONNX-Tensorflow team has tried 1.8 candidate with success, excepting unable to parse the non-numeric version number. Shouldn't be a problem with formal release.
  * The resource build is just a gz file. The instruction to pip install from TestPypi is updated to make it clearer.
  * We will consider to have a postmorten meeting to share findings and discuss what can be done better for release 1.9. Jacky will annource it in slack after releaes 1.8 is out.
  * Any additional work items for this working group? We are almost done with 1.8 and the working group immediate mission is complete therefore might be closed. As far as how to do next release without release working group? Unsually it is handled by the release manager from a rotating company. Should double check with TSC.

## Action items
